README.md, before:

# extract_info_from_EFIT

## Description
This project contains Python code for extracting useful info from [EFIT](https://fusion.gat.com/theory/Efit) files.

`read_EFIT.py` takes an EFIT file and construct a dictionary of:
* resolution `nw` (Rgrid) and `nh` (Zgrid)
* position of the magnetic axis: `rmaxis`, `zmaxis`
* poloidal magnetic flux on (R, Z) grid: `psirz`
* physical quantities: F ( = Btor * R), Pressure, FFprime, Pprime, q, jtor
* magnetic field strength: Btor, Bpol
* coordinates: `psipn`, `rhotn`

`calc_volume_from_EFIT.py` contains methods:
* `dVolume` returns the total volume between two given flux surfaces
* `totalV` scans from magnetic axis to the boundary to write out volume elements versus `psipn` coordinate in EFIT file
* `surfaceArea` returns the total surface area given the flux surface `psipn`
* `totalN` multiplies volume element with density profile to get the total stored particle numbers

`calc_theta.py` contains methods that construct magnetic-field-line-following coordinate `theta` from the EFIT file:
* `theta_grid_old` returns theta grid if it's given the grid points along a flux surface: theta = integral of `dl` the length of segments between two grid points of `B_tor / q / gradPsi`, where `gradPsi` is the gradient of `psirz` in the (R,Z) plane
* 'theta_grid` and `originalSurf` doesn't require grid points as input. Instead, they could first trace points of a flux surface and then use those points to find the theta grid that centers at outboard mid-plane.

## Usage

## Note
TODO: find total magnetic field at a given (R,Z), not limited in psipn < 1

Commit message:

docs: add usage in README

README.md, after:

# extract_info_from_EFIT

## Description
This project contains Python code for extracting useful info from [EFIT](https://fusion.gat.com/theory/Efit) files.

`read_EFIT.py` takes an EFIT file and construct a dictionary of:
* resolution `nw` (Rgrid) and `nh` (Zgrid)
* position of the magnetic axis: `rmaxis`, `zmaxis`
* poloidal magnetic flux on (R, Z) grid: `psirz`
* physical quantities: F ( = Btor * R), Pressure, FFprime, Pprime, q, jtor
* magnetic field strength: Btor, Bpol
* coordinates: `psipn`, `rhotn`

`calc_volume_from_EFIT.py` contains methods:
* `dVolume` returns the total volume between two given flux surfaces
* `totalV` scans from magnetic axis to the boundary to write out volume elements versus `psipn` coordinate in EFIT file
* `surfaceArea` returns the total surface area given the flux surface `psipn`
* `totalN` multiplies volume element with density profile to get the total stored particle numbers

`calc_theta.py` contains methods that construct magnetic-field-line-following coordinate `theta` from the EFIT file:
* `theta_grid_old` returns theta grid if it's given the grid points along a flux surface: theta = integral of `dl` the length of segments between two grid points of `B_tor / q / gradPsi`, where `gradPsi` is the gradient of `psirz` in the (R, Z) plane
* `theta_grid` and `originalSurf` doesn't require grid points as input. Instead, they could first trace points of a flux surface and then use those points to find the theta grid that centers at outboard mid-plane.

## Usage
Usage of `read_EFIT.py` and `calc_volume_from_EIFT.py` is in `TestDrive_efit.py`. To run `TestDrive_efit.py', make sure there's an EFIT file in the working directory:
```
TestDrive_efit.py g09889.04530
```
Usage of 'calc_theta.py` is in `cmpGENEtheta.py`. To run `cmpGENEtheta.py`, make sure file 'pnts_DIIID_psi09854.txt' is in your working directory:
```
python cmpGENEtheta.py
```
## Note
TODO: find total magnetic field at a given (R,Z), not limited in psipn < 1
